README.md, before:


# zfs-compression-test
Crude Standardised ZFS compression test, with repeatable results in mind

## Important notes
- Make sure you do not have zfs installed already via other means
- This assumes a clean install with sudo, unzip, wget and git installed
- The enwik9 dataset gets downloaded just once, don;t worry about the time it takes
- This script makes sure the build/test environment is as prestine as possible before and after running
- This script uses a ramdisk as source and (pool) destination for writes tests to asure clean and unbottlenecked results

## How setup

1. Install all dependancies as described here: https://github.com/zfsonlinux/zfs/wiki/Building-ZFS#installing-dependencies
2. make sure fio is installed (ex. `apt-get install fio` )
3. Run: `git clone https://github.com/Ornias1993/zfs-compression-test`
4. Run: `cd zfs-compression-test`
5. Clone the branch/repo containing ZoL (ex. `git clone https://github.com/zfsonlinux/zfs` )

By now you'll have all dependencies and you'll have a clean git clone in zfs-compression-test/zfs

## How to use
1. Make sure you cd into the zfs-compression-test directory
2. run: sudo ./comp-test.sh with one of the **options** (ex. sudo `./comp-test.sh -i -b -r` )

## options

**Compression Tests**
- **-b** A basic test of only the following algorithms: off lz4 zle lzjb gzip zstd
- **-f** A full test of all compression algorithms available for ZFS
- **-c** A Custom test with only the argument algorithm
- **-t** Select a different compression test file. Options: `enwik9` and `mpeg4`
- **-p** Enter a different prefix for the test results

**Other**
- **-i** Builds and installs the ZFS testing environment (before running tests)
- **-r** Completely removes the ZFS testing environment (after running tests)
- **-s** Enter custom storagepool-devices. (i.e. ./comp-test.sh -s "raidz1 /dev/disk1 /dev/disk2 /dev/disk3") 
- **-h** Displays a help page, which includes a reference to the different commands

When finished you'll have a .txt file in the zfs-compression-test directory, containing the test results


### To Do
- Add custom ram setting
- Automatic run of tests and zloop
- Combinations of Tests, Zloop and Compression
- Input sanitsaion

### LICENCE
This work is dual licenced under GPLv2 and BSD-2 clause

Commit message:

Opt filesize and update documentation (#39)
* add command line option -F to override FILESIZE in fio tests

* add some sync commands to flush caches and let IO settle between steps

* re-format old help message

* document options "-S" and "-P <pool>" in '-h' help output

* document option "-F <file_size>" in '-h' help output

* update documentation in README.md

README.md, after:


# zfs-compression-test
Crude Standardised ZFS compression test, with repeatable results in mind

## Important notes
- Make sure you do not have zfs installed already via other means
- This assumes a clean install with sudo, unzip, wget and git installed
- The enwik9 dataset gets downloaded just once, don;t worry about the time it takes
- This script makes sure the build/test environment is as prestine as possible before and after running
- This script uses a ramdisk as source and (pool) destination for writes tests to asure clean and unbottlenecked results

## How setup

1. Install all dependancies as described here: https://github.com/zfsonlinux/zfs/wiki/Building-ZFS#installing-dependencies
2. make sure fio is installed (ex. `apt-get install fio` )
3. Run: `git clone https://github.com/Ornias1993/zfs-compression-test`
4. Run: `cd zfs-compression-test`
5. Clone the branch/repo containing ZoL (ex. `git clone https://github.com/zfsonlinux/zfs` )

By now you'll have all dependencies and you'll have a clean git clone in zfs-compression-test/zfs

## How to use
1. Make sure you cd into the zfs-compression-test directory
2. run: sudo ./comp-test.sh with one of the **options** (ex. sudo `./comp-test.sh -i -b -r` )

## options

**Compression Tests**
- **-b** A basic test of only the following algorithms: off lz4 zle lzjb gzip zstd
- **-f** A full test of all compression algorithms available for ZFS
- **-c** A Custom test with only the argument algorithm
- **-t** Select a different compression test file. Options: `enwik9` and `mpeg4`
- **-p** Enter a different prefix for the test results

**Other**
- **-i** Builds and installs the ZFS testing environment (before running tests)
- **-r** Completely removes the ZFS testing environment (after running tests)
- **-S** Use system ZFS environment
- **-s** Enter custom storagepool-devices. (i.e. ./comp-test.sh -s "raidz1 /dev/disk1 /dev/disk2 /dev/disk3") 
- **-P** Use existing ZFS Pool for the tests
- **-F** Size of files used in the 'fio' tests (if you benchmark on real block devices, this should be larger than your RAM)
- **-h** Displays a help page, which includes a reference to the different commands

When finished you'll have a .txt file in the zfs-compression-test directory, containing the test results


### To Do
- Add custom ram setting
- Automatic run of tests and zloop
- Combinations of Tests, Zloop and Compression
- Input sanitsaion

### LICENCE
This work is dual licenced under GPLv2 and BSD-2 clause
